Plugin docs (#634)
mosdef-hub/mbuild: docs/recipe_development.rst

==============
Recipe Development
==============

mBuild, owing to its object-oriented-design, encourages users to subclass ``Compound`` to disseminate reproducible scripts for building their systems of interest.
Sharing a script to reproduce the initial configuration and force field parameters (if applicable) of a system is a great step towards increasing the ability of others to reproduce another's work.

However, there might be some cases where those subclasses and scripts can be generalized to support even more systems than initially realized.

> These subclasses would be a valuable resource for many and might justify development of a new Python package to distribute this work to the community.

Reviewer: should all the nouns in this line be plural?

Reviewer: By that, I mean line 9.

==============
Recipe Development
==============

> mBuild encourages users to subclass ``Compound`` to disseminate reproducible scripts used for building their systems.

Reviewer 2: I think the tone of this paragraph is not appropriate for documentation. We may encourage users to publish their scripts, but the focus here should be on how the software enables that process.

I'm also not sure if the pressure to package and publish Python code should be a main focus in this scope; I wonder if the selling point should simply be the accessibility from inside of mBuild

Sharing the script used to construct the initial configuration and apply force field parameters (if applicable) is a great step towards increasing the reproducibility of the system initialization step.

However, there may be cases where those subclasses and/or scripts can be generalized to support a broad range of systems.
Such subclasses would be a valuable resource for many researchers, and might justify development of a Python package that could be distributed to the community.

> mBuild has been developed with this in mind, in the form of a plug-in recipe system.

Reviewer 2: `plug-in` vs. `recipe`

I think this is some fluid representation we (I) need to nip in the bud. We should pick one of these two and roll with it; as far as I can tell their meaning is identical.

Author: What do we want to go with? Currently im using `plug-in` but we can change it later.

Reviewer 2: Typo on my part - I mean `plugin` vs `recipe`

> Detailed below are the specifications of this system, how to convert your own Python project into an mBuild-discoverable plug-in, and an example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detailed below are the specifications of this system, how to convert an existing Python project into an mBuild-discoverable plug-in, and an example.
```

Entry Points
--------

> The basis of the recipe system in mBuild relies on `setuptools.entry_points <https://packaging.python.org/guides/creating-and-discovering-plugins/#using-package-metadata>`_.

Reviewer 2: Not sure about this wording, I suggest something like `The basis of the recipe system is` or `The recipe system relies on`

> This allows other packages to register themselves with the ``entry_point`` group we defined in mBuild, so they are accessible through the ``mbuild.recipes.my_recipe_foo`` location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows other packages to register themselves with the ``entry_point`` group we defined in mBuild, so they are accessible through the ``mbuild.recipes`` location.
```

In this case, ``my_recipe_foo`` would be the recipe you want to share.
You can install many mBuild recipes, and only have to import mBuild to have access to them all!

> It is not necessary to use calls like this: ``from my_foo_project import my_recipe_foo``.

Reviewer 2: I think these sentences should be restructured; I think of `foo` as the starting point and the recipe as something that follows.

```suggestion
Imagine you have a class named `my_foo` that inherits from `mb.Compound`. It is currently inside of a project `my_project` and is accessed via a direct import, i.e. `from my_project import my_foo`. You can use register this class as an entry point associated with `mbuild.recipes`. It will then be accessible from inside mBuild as a recipe via `mbuild.recipes.my_foo` and a direct import will be unncessary.

The call ``import mbuild`` discovers all recipes that fit the ``entry_point`` group specification and makes them available under ``mbuild.recipes``. 

Registering a Recipe
________

> In the case that a user already has a Python project set up with a structure similar to the layout below:

Reviewer 2: The next sentence is complete so this should be a complete sentence as well, I think?
```suggestion
Here we consider the case that a user already has a Python project set up with a structure similar to the layout below.
```

This project can be found `here <https://github.com/justinGilmer/mbuild-fcc>`_.

::

    mbuild_fcc
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── mbuild_fcc
    │   ├── mbuild_fcc.py
    │   └── tests

>     │       ├── __init__.py

Reviewer 2: More a general question; why is there this `__init__` be in `tests` and why isn't there one in the main module?

    │       └── test_fcc.py
    └── setup.py

The two important files for the user to convert their ``mBuild`` recipe to a discoverable plug-in are ``setup.py`` and ``mbuild_fcc.py``.

To begin, lets first inspect the ``mbuild_fcc.py`` file, a shortened snippet is below.

::

    import mbuild

    class FCC(mbuild.Compound):
        """Create a mBuild Compound with a repeating unit of the FCC unit cell.

        ... (shortened for viewability)

        """

        def __init__(self, lattice_spacing=None, compound_to_add=None, x=1, y=1, z=1):
            super(FCC, self).__init__()

            # ... (shortened for viewability)

    if __name__ == "__main__":
        au_fcc_lattice = FCC(lattice_spacing=0.40782,
                             compound_to_add=mbuild.Compound(name="Au"),
                             x=5, y=5, z=1)
        print(au_fcc_lattice)

> There are two very important lines in this file that we need to know when developing a plug-in for mBuild.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two notable lines in this file that we need to focus on when developing this as a plug-in for mBuild.
```

The first is the import statement ``import mbuild``.
We must make sure that mbuild is installed since we are inheriting from ``mbuild.Compound``. When you decide to distribute your plug-in,
the dependencies must be listed.

> The second is the name of the plug-in itself. It is considered good practice to name it the name of your ``class``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second is to select name of the plug-in itself. It is considered good practice to name it the name of your ``class``.
```
I think this makes it more clear what's going on here, since here the developer needs to decide a name; it doesn't exist prior

> In this case, the name of the plug-in would be ``FCC``.

Reviewer 2: not sure about this one, but my intent here is to highlight that the developer picks the name; it isn't specified beforehand
```suggestion
In this case, we will name the plug-in ``FCC``.
```

The last step is to edit the ``setup.py`` file such that the plug-in can be registered under the entry_point group ``mbuild.plugins``.

::

    from setuptools import setup

    setup(
        name="mbuild_fcc",
        install_requires="mbuild",
        entry_points={
            "mbuild.plugins":[
                "FCC = mbuild_fcc.mbuild_fcc:FCC"
            ]
        },
        py_modules=["mbuild_fcc"],

>     )

Reviewer 2: This is what the entrypoints docs does, which I kinda like

```suggestion
    setup(
            ...
            entry_points={"mbuild.plugins": ["FCC = mbuild_fcc.mbuild_fcc:FCC"]},
            ...
    )
```

> This is once again, a very minimal setup file, a more thoroughly tested and developed package will have more information contained within.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence can be dropped

The important section is the ``entry_points`` argument. Here we define the entry_point group we want to register with: ``"mbuild.plugins"``.

> Finally, we tell python what name to use when accessing this plug-in, in this case we call it ``FCC`` as denoted by the name before the assignment operator ``FCC =``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we tell Python what name to use when accessing this plug-in. Earlier, we decided to call it ``FCC``. This is denoted here by the name before the assignment operator ``FCC =``.
```

> Next, we pass the "path" from the location of the ``setup.py`` file to the python file that contains the class we want to register as a plug-in: ``mbuild_fcc.mbuild_fcc``. Then, we provide the name of the class within that python file we want to make discoverable ``:FCC``.

Reviewer 2: `"path"`

I'm not sure what the proper term here is but I think this might confuse somebody to point it to the full path to the `.py` file

Since the ``setup.py`` file is located in the top folder of the python project, the first ``mbuild_fcc`` is the name of the folder, and the second is the name of the python file. The colon (:) is used when accessing the class from the python file itself.

Putting it all together
________

Finally, we have ``FCC = mbuild_fcc.mbuild_fcc:FCC``.

> Make sure you have mBuild installed, then run the command below in the directory where the ``setup.py`` file is located.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear at this point if we expect the reader to have cloned the repo; it was introduced as a package that some unnamed developer already had, not an example the user is supposed to go through. I'm not sure which is better but I prefer the latter

``pip install -e .``

Note that this command will install this project from source in an editable format.

Trying it Out
_________

> To test that you set up your plug-in correctly, try importing mBuild!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To test that you set up your plug-in correctly, try importing mBuild:
```

==============
Recipe Development

> ==============

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==================
Recipe Development
==================
```

--------

The basis of the plug-in system in mBuild is the `setuptools.entry_points package <https://packaging.python.org/guides/creating-and-discovering-plugins/#using-package-metadata>`_.
This allows other packages to register themselves with the ``entry_point`` group we defined in mBuild, so they are accessible through the ``mbuild.recipes`` location.
Imagine you have a class named `my_foo` that inherits from `mb.Compound`.
It is currently inside of a project `my_project` and is accessed via a direct import, i.e. `from my_project import my_foo`.
You can register this class as an entry point associated with `mbuild.recipes`.
It will then be accessible from inside mBuild as a plug-in via `mbuild.recipes.my_foo` and a direct import will be unncessary.
The call ``import mbuild`` discovers all plug-ins that fit the ``entry_point`` group specification and makes them available under ``mbuild.recipes``.

Registering a Recipe
________

Here we consider the case that a user already has a Python project set up with a structure similar to the layout below.

This project can be found `here <https://github.com/justinGilmer/mbuild-fcc>`_.

::

    mbuild_fcc
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md

>     ├── mbuild_fcc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ├── mbuild_fcc
    │   ├── __init__.py
```
